---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---
I'm a Brazilian software developer, born and raised in Fortaleza - Ceara, and I've been working full-time in the field since 2010. Currently living in Toronto, ON, Canada.

In 2007 I started a Computer Science course at the [Federal University of Ceara - UFC](http://www.ufc.br). Until my graduation in 2011 I've learned the mathematical, logical and computational bases in this very theory focused course. I've also had the opportunity to gain my first job experience as an IT Intern working in one of the department's laboratories.

In 2009 I felt the need to start getting experience as a Software Developer, which was my aimed profession since before high school. I started searching for companies with trainee programs and applied for one at a local company called [Xseed](http://www.xseed.com.br/eng/). It was a great starter experience because me and my colleagues spent the first months in a training period learning **Java**, **Javascript**, **SQL** and basic **System's analysis**. After this period I started working in migration projects from legacy COBOL/LINCII or Natural/ADABAS to Java / **Oracle**. We used a Java application to parse legacy code to Java, which I helped to expand and maintain. At the end of 2010 my classes' schedule allowed me to work full-time and I was hired as as Junior Software Developer.

After my graduation in 2011, I started working at [Cafaz](http://www.cafaz.org.br/), a health insurance company. They had bought an application to control all areas of the company, developed in **NodeJS**. This application allows new code to be added by the clients, having its own version control and editor, and they needed someone to develop and maintain this customized code. It was a chance to getting more knowledge in **Javascript**, **Oracle** and **SOAP Web Services** as well as **Requirements Elicitation**, since I was in constant contact with both internal and external users. Sometimes they also required me to build **Mobile Applications** and **PHP+Apache+MySQL** systems when it wasn't possible/needed to be coded within the main system. In 2016, a few years after my departure, they contact me to work remotely as a part-time developer, position that I held until 2018.

In 2013 I was selected for an IT Analyst position at [Dataprev](https://portal.dataprev.gov.br/), a federal IT company in Brazil. At this company I was able to consolidate some knowledge while working on web systems with **JSF**, **EJB** and **JPA/HIbernate**. It was awesome to participate in a well established and agile software developing cycle, working from projects planning until its deployment in production. There I was able to work on **Testing** activities, like participating in integration tests with both internal and external teams and developing unit, integration, automated and performance tests. Dataprev's environment also allowed me to learn a lot through some challenges throughout the years, like working with big **Spring Batch** projects and being a substitute project manager for some time. I'm always trying to stay updated and to learn new things that can help in my profession, and Datapev was a great place to do that. It was great migrating to a more service oriented architecture using **REST** in our applications as well as working with **Devops** approach and **Continuous Integration** applications.

I'v always wanted to leave and work abroad, and Canada was my country of choice. In 2017 I started a process to be a Canadian Permanent Resident, which I concluded when I arrive in Toronto in 2018. 

For more information about my professional career your can refer to my Linkedin and Github pages below.
